and introduction to second chronicles.
First and second chronicles were originally one volume,
which was later divided into two.
The writer was Ezra, an Aaronic priest and copyist,
who completed the volume about 460 BCE.
The writing deals almost entirely with the Kingdom of Judah.
Second Chronicles covers a period of 500 years,
from the start of Solomon's reign in 1037 BCE,
to Persian King Cyrus decree of 537 BCE
to rebuild the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem.
Chapters 1-9 discuss the reign of King Solomon.
In chapter 1, Jehovah gives Solomon extraordinary wisdom
so that he can judge the people well.
Chapters 2-7 cover Solomon's preparations for the temple,
its utensils and furnishings, as well as its construction and inauguration.
In chapter 9, the queen of Shiba visits Solomon
and is amazed at his wisdom.
After Solomon's 40-year reign, his son Rehoboam becomes king.
In the next chapter, 10 tribes revolt against Rehoboam
and form the Northern Kingdom of Israel.
Chapters 17-20 discuss King Jehoshaphat,
who does what is right in Jehovah's eyes.
He even sends out princes and Levites to teach God's law.
In chapter 20, Jehoshaphat prays for help
when facing the combined forces of Ammon, Moab,
and the mountainous region of Seer.
In answer to the King's prayer, God causes the invaders
to slaughter each other.
In chapter 22, wicked queen Athalia destroys the royal line
of the house of Judah except for the child Jehoash.
He is saved by Jeho Shabbiaith and her husband, High Priest Jehoyeda.
In chapters 23 and 24, Jehoash is made king at age 7
and Athalia is put to death.
Under the good influence of High Priest Jehoyeda,
Jehoash does what is right in God's eyes,
even renovating the temple.
But after Jehoyeda dies, Jehoash abandons true worship.
When Jehoyeda's son rebukes the king, Jehoash has him put to death.
In chapter 26, Uzziah becomes king.
At first, he does what is right in God's eyes.
But later, he becomes haughty.
He even tries to burn incense in the temple,
a responsibility reserved for the priests.
Jehoba strikes Uzziah with leprosy.
Chapters 29-32 discuss the reign of King Hezekiah
who zealously promotes true worship all his life.
During Hezekiah's reign,
Assyrian king Sinakarib invades Judah and threatens Jerusalem.
But Jehova's angel wipes out every mighty warrior, leader and chief in the Assyrian camp.
Chapter 33 discusses the 55-year reign of King Manasseh
who does on a grand scale what is bad in Jehova's eyes.
Did you know?
Although King Manasseh later repented,
his depravity sent Judah into the moral and spiritual tailspin
that led to its exile.
Chapters 34 and 35 discuss the reign of King Josiah.
Eight years old when he becomes king,
he remains firm for true worship.
He even embarks on a sweeping campaign against idolatry.
Chapter 36 discusses the last four kings of Judah.
Jehoah has, Jehoye Kim, Jehoye Kim and Zedekiah,
all disobey Jehova.
Despite the earlier efforts of the good kings,
Judah continues to decline into apostasy,
so Jehova allows the Babylonians to invade the land and attack Jerusalem.
They destroy the city and take the people into exile.
Ezra concludes Second Chronicles by leaping ahead 70 years
to the reign of Persian king Cyrus.
In a historic decree, Cyrus frees the Jews,
telling them to rebuild the house of Jehova in Jerusalem.
As you read Second Chronicles,
learn from the examples of the kings, good and bad.
See how Jehova blessed those who loved him,
and note how he preserved the royal line of David,
which later produced the Messiah, the King of God's Kingdom.